other/ToDos.md, before:

#### General
1. ~~Add old data to unused folder~~
2. ~~Create a gitignore for unused folder~~
3. Comment and format all code
4. Presentation notes, explain SVI percentile and wfh
5. re-write / update README.md

#### Notebooks
1. Determine if zs_intersecting_projecting notebook is necessary - I DON'T THINK IT IS
2. Make a markdown section headings normal sentence case and punctuation
3. Is cdps_svi necessary in spatially_weighted_mean_notebook - I DON'T THINK IT IS
4. Create sample plots for for zoom in SVI chart
    - bar chart at CDP w/ state average and US average for comparison
5. ~~Centroid issues in new notebook~~
6. ~~convert whp class numbers to a text field for moderate, high and very high~~
7. ~~round weighted mean values to two decimals~~
8. ~~fix zonal stats image~~
9. Histogram comparing SE to West

#### HTML/CSS/LAYOUT
1. ~~Clean up hyperlink code for svg~~
2. ~~Push info svg further to right so it's tight against search box~~
3. ~~What is the purple area in row class on right of screen~~
4. ~~Put info SVG and search bar in same div so they always stay in the place.~~
5.~~ Use greater arrow instead of values for SVI vulnerabilty legend?~~
6. side bar content 
    * info
    * ~~legend - breakout and use CSS for text~~
    * ~~figure out why icons on side bar aren't working~~
    * default state open
    * ~~refine text content~~
7. ~~Remove info svg icon from top~~
8. ~~Push search bar to right in header~~
9. Center popup in polygon


#### Basemap
1. ~~Create basemap with mapbox~~
2. ~~Aerial at polygon scale?~~

#### JS
1. ~~Plot graduated symbols~~
2. ~~Plot polygons with color symbology~~
3. ~~Update static legend for colors and graduated symbols, fix colors, make background same greay as ocean - https://roh.engineering/posts/2021/05/map-symbols-and-size-legends-for-leaflet/~~
4. ~~Make search bar usable based on CDP input, figure out why search list is below map and legend (#logo)  divs~~
5. ~~might need to concatenate fields in Pandas to include CDP and State together~~
6. ~~Create popups and format them for graduated symbols~~
7. ~~Zoom change~~
8. ~~Getbounds~~
9. ~~Popup formatting~~

Commit message:

add ordinal classes to data, update popups

other/ToDos.md, after:

#### General
1. ~~Add old data to unused folder~~
2. ~~Create a gitignore for unused folder~~
3. Comment and format all code
4. Presentation notes, explain SVI percentile and wfh
5. re-write / update README.md

#### Notebooks
1. Determine if zs_intersecting_projecting notebook is necessary - I DON'T THINK IT IS
2. Make a markdown section headings normal sentence case and punctuation
3. Is cdps_svi necessary in spatially_weighted_mean_notebook - I DON'T THINK IT IS
4. Create sample plots for for zoom in SVI chart
    - bar chart at CDP w/ state average and US average for comparison
5. ~~Centroid issues in new notebook~~
6. ~~convert whp class numbers to a text field for moderate, high and very high~~
7. ~~round weighted mean values to two decimals~~
8. ~~fix zonal stats image~~
9. Histogram comparing SE to West
10. Update data with ordinal scale values

#### HTML/CSS/LAYOUT
1. ~~Clean up hyperlink code for svg~~
2. ~~Push info svg further to right so it's tight against search box~~
3. ~~What is the purple area in row class on right of screen~~
4. ~~Put info SVG and search bar in same div so they always stay in the place.~~
5.~~ Use greater arrow instead of values for SVI vulnerabilty legend?~~
6. side bar content 
    * info
    * ~~legend - breakout and use CSS for text~~
    * ~~figure out why icons on side bar aren't working~~
    * default state open
    * ~~refine text content~~
7. ~~Remove info svg icon from top~~
8. ~~Push search bar to right in header~~
9. Center popup in polygon
10. Update legend with ordinal scale


#### Basemap
1. ~~Create basemap with mapbox~~
2. ~~Aerial at polygon scale?~~

#### JS
1. ~~Plot graduated symbols~~
2. ~~Plot polygons with color symbology~~
3. ~~Update static legend for colors and graduated symbols, fix colors, make background same greay as ocean - https://roh.engineering/posts/2021/05/map-symbols-and-size-legends-for-leaflet/~~
4. ~~Make search bar usable based on CDP input, figure out why search list is below map and legend (#logo)  divs~~
5. ~~might need to concatenate fields in Pandas to include CDP and State together~~
6. ~~Create popups and format them for graduated symbols~~
7. ~~Zoom change~~
8. ~~Getbounds~~
9. ~~Popup formatting~~
